0. Relative to prosecution of white collar crime
1. All police departments in the state of New Hampshire at all levels of government
   (state, county, municipal) shall be required to have units devoted to the
   investigation and prosecution of white collar crime.
2. No new funding shall be allocated for the creation of these white collar crime
   units. Instead, police departments shall transfer funding from any of their
   other units to fund the creation of these new units.

(TODO: research the status of any such existing units)
(Talk with: ACLU, Marjorie Smith, Merryl Gibbs)

Relevant article:
https://newhampshirebulletin.com/2023/08/09/nh-doj-more-complex-civil-litigation-load-than-at-any-time-in-recent-memory/

From ChatGPT in response to the prompt "How is white-collar crime generally prosecuted?" on December 4, 2022:

White-collar crime is a broad term that refers to non-violent crimes that are
committed by individuals or organizations in the course of their business or
professional activities. White-collar crimes are often financially motivated,
and can include offenses such as fraud, embezzlement, insider trading, bribery,
money laundering, and tax evasion.

White-collar crime is generally prosecuted by specialized units within law
enforcement agencies, such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in the
United States. These units typically have expertise in investigating and
prosecuting white-collar crimes, and work closely with other agencies and
regulatory bodies to gather evidence and build cases against individuals or
organizations involved in these offenses. In some cases, white-collar crime may
also be prosecuted by state or local authorities, depending on the jurisdiction
and the specifics of the case.

The prosecution of white-collar crime can be complex and time-consuming, and
often involves the analysis of large amounts of financial and other data. As a
result, it is common for white-collar crime cases to be handled by teams of
investigators and prosecutors, who work together to build a strong and convincing
case against the suspects. The specific steps and legal procedures involved in
prosecuting white-collar crime will vary depending on the jurisdiction and the
type of offense, but generally involve the collection and examination of
evidence, the filing of charges, and the presentation of the case in court.
